Updates to PGD PR5102 (#5024)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/security/role-management.mdx

title: Role management
---

Users are global objects in a PostgreSQL instance. A `CREATE ROLE` command or its alias `CREATE USER` is replicated automatically if it's executed in a PGD replicated database. If a role or user is created in a non-PGD, unreplicated database, the role exists only for that PostgreSQL instance. `GRANT ROLE` and `DROP ROLE` work the same way, replicating only if applied to a PGD-replicated database.

!!! Note

> A user in Postgres terms is a role with login privileges.

Reviewer: No. The emphasis on remembering and that this is a simple association was essential to the tone and positioning of this note.

Author: ```suggestion
Remember that a user in Postgres terms is simply a role with login privileges.
```

!!!

## Role rule - No un-replicated roles

> If you do create a role or user in a non-PGD, unreplicated database, it's especially important that you don't make an object in the PGD-replicated database rely on that role. It will break the replication process, as PGD can't replicate a role that isn't in the PGD-replicated database. 

Reviewer: The contractions here are jarring as this is a statement of when you will break your system. The formality of un-contracted language when warning people not to do something is appropriate.

Author: ```suggestion
If you do create a role or user in a non-PGD, unreplicated database, it's especially important that you do not make an object in the PGD-replicated database rely on that role. It will break the replication process, as PGD cannot replicate a role that is not in the PGD-replicated database. 
```

> You can disable this automatic replication behavior by turning off the [`bdr.role_replication`](https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/pgd/latest/reference/pgd-settings/#bdrrole_replication) setting. However, we don't recommend that.

Reviewer: As above, but moreso that we want a direct association with the statement before. The however disassociates it in the mind of the reader.

Author: ```suggestion
You can disable this automatic replication behavior by turning off the [`bdr.role_replication`](https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/pgd/latest/reference/pgd-settings/#bdrrole_replication) setting, but we don't recommend that.
```

## Roles for new nodes

> New PGD nodes that are added using [`bdr_init_physical`](https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/pgd/latest/reference/nodes/#bdr_init_physical) replicate the roles from other nodes of the PGD cluster.

Reviewer: "will automatically" in needed in this sentence. No idea why it was removed. In fact it breaks the context when we return to automatic copying in a paragraphs time.

Author: Both future tense and the use of "automatically" are generally tech editing no-nos, but if you feel strongly it adds something, I'll add it back. 
```suggestion
New PGD nodes that are added using [`bdr_init_physical`](https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/pgd/latest/reference/nodes/#bdr_init_physical) will automatically replicate the roles from other nodes of the PGD cluster.
```

If a PGD node is joined to a PGD group manually, without using `bdr_init_physical`, existing roles aren't copied to the newly joined node. This is intentional behavior to ensure that access isn't accidentally granted.

> Roles, by default, have access to all databases. Automatically copying users to a newly created node therefore opens the possibility of unintentionally exposing a database that exists on the node. If the PGD cluster had a user Alice, and Alice was automatically created on a newly joined node, by directly connecting to that node, Alice would have access to all the databases on that node. PGD therefore doesn't copy over existing roles. In this situation, we recommend that you copy over roles manually.

Reviewer: The would was there because this is something we *don't* do. The sentence now suggests it is possible.

Author: ```suggestion
Roles, by default, have access to all databases. Automatically copying users to a newly created node would therefore open the possibility of unintentionally exposing a database that exists on the node. If the PGD cluster had a user Alice, and Alice was automatically created on a newly joined node, by directly connecting to that node, Alice would have access to all the databases on that node. PGD therefore doesn't copy over existing roles. In this situation, we recommend that you copy over roles manually.
```

PostgreSQL allows you to dump all roles with the command:

```
pg_dumpall --roles-only > roles.sql
```

> You can then edit the file `roles.sql` to remove unwanted users before executing that command again on the newly created node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then edit the file `roles.sql` to remove unwanted users before running the file's commands on the newly created node.
```

> When joining a new node, the “No unreplicated roles” rule also applies. If an object in the database being replicated relies on an unreplicated role in an (unreplicated) local database, then the join fails when it attempts to replicate that object.

Reviewer: This happens *before* replication has actually started, during the join. Hence the to-be replicated.

Author: ```suggestion
When joining a new node, the “No unreplicated roles” rule also applies. If an object in the database to be replicated relies on an unreplicated role in an (unreplicated) local database, then the join fails when it attempts to replicate that object.
```

are used frequently to refer to, create, and manage database objects.

PGD is carefully written to prevent privilege escalation attacks even when using

> a role with superuser rights in these DSNs.

Reviewer: `SUPERUSER` is a named privilege.

Author: ```suggestion
a role with `SUPERUSER` rights in these DSNs.
```
